README.md, before:

# EShopMS

## Tech and techniques used:

- [Postgres | Marten](https://martendb.io/introduction.html): Transforms Postgres into transactional document database
- [Vertical Slice Architecture](https://www.milanjovanovic.tech/blog/vertical-slice-architecture)
- [Carter](https://github.com/CarterCommunity/Carter): Minimal API setup
- [Mapster](https://github.com/MapsterMapper/Mapster): Object mapper
- [FluentValidation](https://docs.fluentvalidation.net/en/latest): Object validation
- [MediatR](https://mediatr.io)

## Key Concepts and Patterns

- [CQRS Pattern](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/cqrs)
- [Mediator Pattern](https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns/mediator)
- [Dual write Problem](https://www.confluent.io/blog/dual-write-problem)
    - Description: The Dual Write Problem is an intrinsic problem that distributed system (such as microservices) face.
      It happens when two systems have to update data based on an event, but one of them fail, leading to an
      inconsistent state.
    - Solution: [Transactional Outbox Pattern](https://microservices.io/patterns/data/transactional-outbox.html)
      This patterns aims to solve the Dual Write problem by keeping a sort of ephemeral ledger in the service that emits
      the event
      in its database as a table, saving it as part of the transaction that updated the domain entitie(s). Then another
      process
      in the service is responsible for taking the stored messages and deleting them as they're sent to the message
      broker.
- [Saga Pattern](https://microservices.io/patterns/data/saga.html)
- Domain and Integration Events: Although on the surface they are the same, a "message" that something happened, their context and implementation details differ slightly.
  - Domain events exist in the context of a domain/microservices, usually are sent after a change in an (aggregate)[https://martinfowler.com/bliki/DDD_Aggregate.html]
  and handled by the same service that generated the event.
  - Integration Events span the context of multiple services/domains, they're meant to communicate changes in the state of one service
    to all the others that need to know about it via a message broker like RabbitMQ.

### Mediator Pattern (With MediatR library)

The Mediator Pattern decouples components by providing a common interface they can communicate through, instead of
directly communicating with one another.
This pattern exemplifies the Dependency Inversion principle, because components depend on the mediator interface (an
abstraction) rather than directly on each other, applying DIP even between peers.

Commit message:

docs: includes saga pattern documentation

README.md, after:

# EShopMS

## Tech and techniques used:

- [Postgres | Marten](https://martendb.io/introduction.html): Transforms Postgres into transactional document database
- [Vertical Slice Architecture](https://www.milanjovanovic.tech/blog/vertical-slice-architecture)
- [Carter](https://github.com/CarterCommunity/Carter): Minimal API setup
- [Mapster](https://github.com/MapsterMapper/Mapster): Object mapper
- [FluentValidation](https://docs.fluentvalidation.net/en/latest): Object validation
- [MediatR](https://mediatr.io)

## Key Concepts and Patterns

- [CQRS Pattern](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/cqrs)
- [Mediator Pattern](https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns/mediator)
- [Dual write Problem](https://www.confluent.io/blog/dual-write-problem)
    - Description: The Dual Write Problem is an intrinsic problem that distributed system (such as microservices) face.
      It happens when two systems have to update data based on an event, but one of them fail, leading to an
      inconsistent state.
    - Solution: [Transactional Outbox Pattern](https://microservices.io/patterns/data/transactional-outbox.html)
      This patterns aims to solve the Dual Write problem by keeping a sort of ephemeral ledger in the service that emits
      the event
      in its database as a table, saving it as part of the transaction that updated the domain entitie(s). Then another
      process
      in the service is responsible for taking the stored messages and deleting them as they're sent to the message
      broker.
- [Saga Pattern](https://microservices.io/patterns/data/saga.html)
  The saga pattern aims to provide data consistency across multiple services, by "chaining" a sequence of local
  transactions.
  In this pattern, a service updates its own database and sends a message to a message broker, another service consumes
  this message and updates its own database, and so on and so forth, thus creating a chain of events.
  It's essential to implement a rollback mechanism so that in case a service fails or rejects the event for some reason,
  the previous services are able to revert the changes as well.
- Domain and Integration Events: Although on the surface they are the same, a "message" that something happened, their
  context and implementation details differ slightly.
    - Domain events exist in the context of a domain/microservices, usually are sent after a change in an (aggregate)[https://martinfowler.com/bliki/DDD_Aggregate.html]
  and handled by the same service that generated the event.
    - Integration Events span the context of multiple services/domains, they're meant to communicate changes in the
      state of one service
      to all the others that need to know about it via a message broker like RabbitMQ.
- Domain and Integration Events: Although on the surface they are the same, a "message" that something happened, their
  context and implementation details differ slightly.
    - Domain events exist in the context of a domain/microservices, usually are sent after a change in an (aggregate)[https://martinfowler.com/bliki/DDD_Aggregate.html]
  and handled by the same service that generated the event.
    - Integration Events span the context of multiple services/domains, they're meant to communicate changes in the
      state of one service
      to all the others that need to know about it via a message broker like RabbitMQ.

### Mediator Pattern (With MediatR library)

The Mediator Pattern decouples components by providing a common interface they can communicate through, instead of
directly communicating with one another.
This pattern exemplifies the Dependency Inversion principle, because components depend on the mediator interface (an
abstraction) rather than directly on each other, applying DIP even between peers.
